## References To Read

[11] R. Corradi, P. Fazioli, S. Marforio, A. Paluello, F. Ripamontit and G.
Squicciarini.: [Modal analysis of a grand piano soundboard](https://eprints.soton.ac.uk/408405/1/20160514_postprint.pdf). In Proceedings of ISMA-USD, Leuven, Belgium, 2010.

[12] D. W. Krueger, K. L. Gee and J. Grimshaw.: Acoustical and vibrometry analysis of a large Balinese gamelan gong. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 128 (1): EL8-EL13,

[5] M. J. Elejabarrietaa, A. Ezcurra and C. Santamaria. Evolution of the vibrational behavior of a guitar soundboard along successive construction phases by means of the modal analysis technique. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 108 (1):
369-378, 2000.

NOTES: Using impact hammer and accelerometer

[14] M. Jossic, A. Mamou-Mani, B. Chomette, D. Roze, F. Ollivier and C.
Josserand.: Modal active control of Chinese gongs. J. Acoust. Soc. Am.
141(6): 567-4578, 2017.

NOTES: Laser Vibrometer and Grid pattern


Farshidi, R., et al. [_Non-Contact Experimental Modal Analysis Using Air Excitation and a Microphone Array._](https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/271454/1-s2.0-S0263224110X00057/1-s2.0-S0263224110000357/main.pdf?X-Amz-Security-Token=IQoJb3JpZ2luX2VjEFEaCXVzLWVhc3QtMSJHMEUCIBDG8gHJJn7Fi%2BpgW3jagKnVgbLXoavV%2FH%2BUIRGjzOHXAiEA%2BsDTZTXrsu0g339ke81ZbtTTTkKB3vOVW1Wo%2B4afcIIqswUIWhAFGgwwNTkwMDM1NDY4NjUiDFsCaeHtXyg8Yiu0AyqQBdGUnOiT6g8eGfXQVCi%2BD993Uc6Sxa6oZAIHVTgthci6ijAgBxKuWGcnvugqSCFekLqdaWeEBuJ9oOZugou4pN6Agu5BOuhJKqnu%2B1bySpsNLTWH5CZfC%2FhXdIr2gDY4YQvRF%2FExMDnHWUo%2BQMb0fthdRvuNh%2B2EfFG9w385DEKymQwIImhfh%2FQX4z2HpkfNkYKExpMDW8umXfMRjzs9Std6lKqgczYWZFNImwewx9vJWiOuuiuQFQzopyae4pzzOennnUIOK9rd7BL%2FVuNfVLPH%2B4aTdOq4xR71R3SbtJmxP2AtH8xmbXU1JwSehhdbraE8DH40DB9fhGbxj0fzXN7y3JQJrXDbP26I5YDuweJ6BvikyfmQsDSYSS84fCjLdHZ9kvJvDkNBL1bNGwBD2ppnf6DuQZiayZT%2BkDjCdPtoHU%2FTBSloiv09tVsGaQVsMrWuXZkJH0Y9rdTwO%2FSXQ2i0xFnsTehlxV6aLWneZmppUqiOpVoCVHdxP6HQnsQLSQ3OVQnimkVjqCeBHJVIyS7X%2FVg6ecUZHMPNOlmESVIqqcdYHUCKuWW3qkSc6FxKhLvFAyhq1Ji4AG%2BnHzGyXDfbksnpn%2BX285Obz5%2FeIQPqZOxxzENQE9yCAr0xOpF%2F%2BDjK4oPWQQIlTl5fJIzshH6fGIACXgHZJAGuss2fKeOZzi5rfiOCTQE8SHoqGoRr1D9QCzb8kFcQ6dKXpoMkG0TjvaUkEuwUSH62qmxLaoUjz3wd%2FGNoIwrbvgTqxTw3rJu%2FK9qleWV4lR66HsdMx2gi08djj3ZpAA54JSm22q1TiL1fVoy5GwXCkuGcv7tm%2BfjqA24lAOF3U0QHM3%2BEX%2FWIlKOX1BRvd2%2Fp%2FIs%2FjBHBMPzLxa8GOrEBQeeNcIRhsgnMjnEBYPJ8pngKMzvRkUTE94EF3RaJ7ORAJzVSZaNDVOqsGITVDBMndVN003elm8GypptooxXQ%2B7KnqowBXLSWVxn0TNQm0P7M1%2Ff1%2B7z9sJBWmQkijZJucDQlBwvdsM62HaVaGUe6kOW15HZJFVYU%2Bid8maIdzWolTCdgFygtGQwPNL%2FfIjsB0ikh4%2BGkkArgw0V2%2FGu7rsVRfj%2BQy%2B1HqN9wFZuwC5X1&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Date=20240313T094014Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=300&X-Amz-Credential=ASIAQ3PHCVTYS2GOCOV5%2F20240313%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Signature=b2b24fdff874303f388b351bb6100098eab520713f444d4b1394415c2b66d050&hash=b8ee82232b7c1e12c557bb079c594e1dad12c10bc890f2698a757a218b7d0e19&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S0263224110000357&tid=spdf-3218155b-31d0-46d7-b2f9-a03ede7c06d4&sid=2b331cc7537b994ab35916430fc5678add79gxrqb&type=client&tsoh=d3d3LnNjaWVuY2VkaXJlY3QuY29t&ua=07155a52550d570305&rr=863b0fb3c939a265&cc=it)Measurement: Journal of the International Measurement Confederation, vol. 43, no. 6, 2010, pp. 755–65, doi:10.1016/j.measurement.2010.02.004.



[15] Ewa Skrodzka, Andrzej Lapa, Bogumil B. J. Linde and Eike Rosenfeld.:
Modal parameters of two incomplete and complete guitars differing in the bracing pattern of the soundboard. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 130(4): 2186-2194, 
2011.

Notes: laser doppler vibrometery

[23] S. Le Moyne, S. Le Conte, J. Battault and S. Vaiedelich. Restoration of a 17th century harpsichord to playable condition: A numerical experimental study. J Acoust Soc Am, 131(1):888-896, 2012.

Notes: laser doppler vibrometery

[31] C. Fritz, I. Cross, B. C. J. Moore and J. Woodhouse. Perceptual thresholds for detecting modifications applied to the acoustical properties of a violin. J Acoust Soc Am, 122(6):3640-3650, 2007.

Notes: laser doppler vibrometery

[25] L. Ausiello and V. Hockey. [Advances in acoustic instrument measurements and system design](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Ludovico-Ausiello-2/publication/348399417_ADVANCES_IN_ACOUSTIC_INSTRUMENT_MEASUREMENTS_AND_SYSTEM_DESIGN/links/653fcc29ff8d8f507cd9d1d3/ADVANCES-IN-ACOUSTIC-INSTRUMENT-MEASUREMENTS-AND-SYSTEM-DESIGN.pdf?origin=publicationDetail&_sg%5B0%5D=-h37kQXlIQZbtN8oikZ7vrxwRlORNoJQV5YjmnFgCS14mvVSsbrYXLrcP6Fb7KhfH6jEaOA9v3LR31zGNmT74w.Wc8E2c47ofv3i8UlKpYcsSNCBKM6GFKC6ND_ydnLLeqrNwg0PIfkhybBrbMhVGUqmTfbV5B3vwRUPFIL9FGrCg&_sg%5B1%5D=fD15YXC8NrK61L973phoBOV2U3AYVSZViwRnC0oZqGw65P7GO2u4ifprhBYbA1mmt5lH9lxTz0WeVhsOllqucmwrX5X3pLPtuRG3ezAAxwFK.Wc8E2c47ofv3i8UlKpYcsSNCBKM6GFKC6ND_ydnLLeqrNwg0PIfkhybBrbMhVGUqmTfbV5B3vwRUPFIL9FGrCg&_iepl=&_rtd=eyJjb250ZW50SW50ZW50IjoibWFpbkl0ZW0ifQ%3D%3D&_tp=eyJjb250ZXh0Ijp7ImZpcnN0UGFnZSI6InB1YmxpY2F0aW9uIiwicGFnZSI6InB1YmxpY2F0aW9uIiwicG9zaXRpb24iOiJwYWdlSGVhZGVyIn19). In Proceedings of the Institute of Acoustics, 42 (3), 2020

NOTES: Sine Sweep impulse response of instrument

- [PSV-500 Scanning Vibrometer](https://www.polytec.com/fileadmin/website/vibrometry/pdf/OM_PB_PSV_E_52096.pdf)

### Questions

Q. _What is speckle noise?_
[22] J. Yang and L. Zili. A new method for eliminating speckle noise from Laser Doppler Vibrometer signals. J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 2041 012007, 2021

A. **Interference in coherent imagary. Problem with high-frequency**



### Extracts

2.1 Measurement set-up
In the first place, it is crucial to deepen the capabilities of the current available experimental modal analysis approaches. When considering the application on historical and fragile musical instruments, it is of great importance to determine the less invasive measurement set-up. Therefore, the project will compare all the available non-contact techniques while validating them against standard methods in order to determine the most stable, accurate and time efficient alternative. To do so, standard measurement procedures will be used as a benchmark to validate further experimental methods, similarly to the quantitative comparison conducted by Duerinck et al. [17]. At this stage, common excitation devices including the impact hammer and the shaker/exciter will be tested on different string musical instruments. While in the first case scenario the applied force and the covered frequency range are directly influenced by the mass of the hammer's head, the velocity with which it's moved and its tip, in the latter, the shaker's model will determine the analysed frequency spectrum. With regard to the acquisition system, traditional approaches comprise the roving accelerometer and the LDV measurement techniques. In the first method, a single point of excitation is needed as it is the accelerometer which is moved to capture the response of the vibrating structure and, in case many accelerometers are available, a multichannel recording system can be used to simultaneously capture all the required system's responses. On the other hand, the LDV makes use of a laser beam, which is directed to a fixed point on the surface under test in order to retrieve the Doppler shift of the wavelength which is reflected back from the vibrating structure [8]. The system can also be implemented with scanning technology (Scanning Laser Doppler Vibrometry, SLDV) in order to map predefined measurement points on the surface, thus allowing the analysis of larger surfaces with a controlled mechanism [8,9,19,42]. While the response's acquisition through the accelerometer guarantees a higher signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), the LDV or the SLDV allow for a non-contact measurement set-up, hence helping to minimise its consequences on the collected results.
Because of these advantages, both acquisition techniques will serve as a benchmark for the validation of further experimental methods. In the specific case, non-contact methods will be considered from available research. In [17], despite the expensive need for a LDV as the acquisition system, the use of a
speaker proved to be a fast, safe and reliable measurement chain. Other authors [23,24,25], investigated the potential of measuring the modal properties of musical instruments through sound radiation measurements and confirmed the reliability of non-contacting acquisition with measurement microphones. For the purpose of the project, such experimental excitation and acquisition options will be tested and combined to identify the less invasive, fastest and most reliable set-up. The flexibility of the measurement method is also relevant when choosing the most appropriate set-up. To this end, retrieving the IRs of musical instruments through sound pressure microphones opens up the opportunity to explore musicians' perceptual sensitivity to objective variations in the acoustics signature of musical instruments thanks to the creation of fast auralizations.


### Sebs proposal

Vibrating structures such as musical instruments are characterised by specific modes of vibrations [6). Accordingly, as these structural vibrations can be considered to be linear, modal analysis techniques allow for the investigation of their natural frequencies, modal damping and mode shapes [6,7] .
Traditionally, when performing modal analysis measurements, the interested structure is excited by a defined force whose response is measured and analysed as a frequency response function (FRF) [7). In order to generate and capture the FRF, sound sources and receivers must be defined. Common approaches to modal analysis include impact (i.e. impact hammer) or shaker measurements set-ups [7,8,9). Both techniques have been commonly used and applied to different string, wind and percussion musical instruments [10,11,12,13,14,15,16]. The impact testing with the hammer requires different impulse responses to be measured and averaged to improve measurements reliability. Consequently, this method can not be taken when investigating fragile surfaces. In a study conducted by Duerinck et al. [17], it was stressed that besides the risk of damaging ancient instruments, the reliability of the impact hammer measurement method strongly depends on the operator's skills, which consequently restricts the reliability and repeatability of the procedure. Although the shaker testing is suited for fragile structures, it can introduce mass loading issues, as was observed by Pyrkosz and Karsen when comparing different experimental measurements techniques on violins [18].
Also, with regards to the effect of the acquisition system, the research conducted by Vanwalleghem et al. [19) addressed and confirmed the impact of the accelerometer's mass, position and wiring system on the measurements' results. Given the above mentioned drawbacks, further methodologies were implemented in order to reduce the impact of the measurement's chain. The Laser Doppler Vibrometer (LDV) represents a commonly employed non-contact analysis tool which has been extensively used to acquire vibroacoustics properties of musical instruments through surface's velocity measurements without damaging or adding any mass load to the investigated instrument, The comparison of the LDV acquisition system over the standard accelerometer
was addressed by Mansour, Scavone and Freour [20], who pointed out how the use of the latter sensor significantly influenced the detection of the natural frequency and other modal nodes, confirming the advantage of the LDV over the accelerometer. Despite the benefits, LDV and SLDV systems are expensive tools and their capability is limited by the line of sight required and by the generation of speckle noise which has been addressed in dedicated research [8, 21, 22]. Less traditional experimental measurements techniques were also investigated to minimise the consequences of the analysis system on the gathered data. Le Moyne, Le Conte and Olivier developed a processing procedure to conduct a modal analysis of an historical and fragile harpsichord through a single impact strike, recorded by a large microphone array covering the entire area of the instrument's soundboard [23]. Moreover, further advantages are reached if a different excitation signal is employed, as demonstrated by Ausiello [24,25). His research on acoustic guitars showed how a novel application of the exponential sine sweep (ESS), introduced and developed by Farina [26,27) led to comparable results to those gathered through an impact hammer, while being a cheaper, more stable and less invasive excitation signal than the latter.
The use of measurement
microphones also allow for the direct collection of the system's impulse response. As for architectural spaces, an impulse response (IR) can be used for auralization purposes, thus extending the application of quantitative measurement set-ups to qualitative and psychoacoustics investigations. This feasible thanks to deconvolution and convolution techniques of the instruments' IRs with anechoic input signals [28,29,30]. However, it is worth mentioning how in the research conducted by Fritz et al. [31], it was preferred to capture the mechanical input admittance instead of the sound radiation of a violin. This procedure made it possible to perform changes in the measured FRF which was then used to create a set of "virtual violins" for listening tests.
Finally,
several
researchers have also taken advantage of computer
simulations based mathematical models to carry out modal analysis of musical instruments. For this purpose, finite and boundary elements methods (FEM and BEM respectively) as well as finite difference time-domain methods were used [32,33]. This approach based on simulations allowed for non-invasive acoustics analysis, so its potential was exploited in studies concerning the restoration and the impact of design changes of historical and fragile musical instruments [34.35]. Nonetheless, when adopting the above-mentioned analysis practices, precise materials properties and models geometry are crucial to assure accurate and reliable values. While data collected from experimental measurements can be used to validate computer based simulations [3.36,37), the anisotropic (mainly orthotropic) properties of wood used in instruments soundboards have a drastic impact on the validity of mathematical simulations and their influence was largely discussed